---
sidebar_position: 6
---
# Get Started with OpenStackClient

OpenStack offers a way to administer your cloud over the command line
using OpenStackClient.

The purpose of this guide is to introduce you to managing your cloud
using the command line. You will learn how to install OpenStackClient,
authenticate, and run introductory commands. Everything that can be done
using Horizon, can also be accomplished using OpenStackClient.

-----

## **Installing OpenStackClient**

OpenStackClient is available as a Python pip package.

For more information about this package, see OpenStackClient's [pip
project page](https://pypi.org/project/openstackclient/).

**Note\!** -- There exist two OpenStackClient packages:
`openstackclient` and `python-openstackclient`. This guide recommends
using `openstackclient` as it comes with many more OpenStack service
command line clients. You can use either package, but if you want to
interact with a specific service's command line client, you may have to
install that separately.

### **How to Install OpenStackClient**

**Note\!** -- These instructions are meant for a Linux environment.

Before getting started, make sure Python 3 and `pip` are installed to
your machine.

The first step is to create a Python virtual environment. This is useful
in that this environment will not interfere with your system's Python
installation.

-----

**Step 1** -- Create Python virtual environment

The following demonstrates creating a virtual environment in the path
`~/venv/openstackclient`.

Create the environment:

    python3 -m venv ~/venv/openstackclient

Activate the environment using `source`:

    $ source ~/venv/openstackclient/bin/activate
    (openstackclient) :~$

Notice the shell now has `(openstackclient)` where commands are entered.
This indicates the virtual environment is active.

**Step 2** -- Update pip

Pip may need to be updated before installing OpenStackClient.

To do so, use:

    python3 -m pip install -U pip

**Step 3** -- Download OpenStackClient

With the virtual environment prepared, use `pip` to download the
OpenStackClient package:

    pip3 install openstackclient

**Step 4** -- Download **OpenStack RC** and **clouds.yaml** files

Next, you will need to obtain two files from Horizon:

> - OpenStack RC
> - clouds.yaml

These are located under the **Project** tab, then **API Access**.

![image](images/um_api_access_osc.png)

From here, click the **Download OpenStack RC File** drop-down, and then
download both files.

The **clouds.yaml** file needs to exist in `~/.config/openstack` for
OpenStackClient to function. When downloaded, ensure it can be located
as `~/.config/openstack/clouds.yaml`.

**Multiple clouds**: If you are working with multiple clouds, add the
cloud entry to the existing `clouds.yaml` and the cloud can be specified
using `OS_CLOUD=$cloud_name` or `--os-cloud=$cloud_name`, where
`$cloud_name` is the name of the cloud you're working with.

Example `clouds.yaml` with two cloud entries, `cloud-1` and `cloud-2`:

    clouds:
      cloud-1:
        auth:
          auth_url: http://50.50.50.1:5000
          username: "admin"
          project_id: b93259ca0a5b4541b30e4e16ae1d699d
          project_name: "Apples"
          user_domain_name: "Default"
        region_name: "iad3"
        interface: "public"
        identity_api_version: 3
      cloud-2:
        auth:
          auth_url: http://50.50.50.2:5000
          username: "admin"
          project_id: 6d0ef671c4b2413d920b61e3777fe2ab
          project_name: "Oranges"
          user_domain_name: "Default"
        region_name: "iad3"
        interface: "public"
        identity_api_version: 3

**Step 5** -- Finish preparing environment

Next, load the **OpenStack RC** file into your shell using `source`:

    source ~/Downloads/user-openrc.sh

This action sets needed environment variables and will also ask you to
authenticate as your OpenStack user:

    (openstackclient):~$ source ~/Downloads/user-openrc.sh
    Please enter your OpenStack Password for project User Cloud Test as user
    user1:

Enter in the password for your user, and you are now set to use
OpenStackClient.

-----

**Note\!** -- In addition to OpenStackClient, there are other command
line clients for various OpenStack services that can be used. For
example,
[Nova](https://docs.openstack.org/python-novaclient/latest/cli/nova.html)
and
[Cinder](https://docs.openstack.org/python-cinderclient/latest/cli/details.html)
each have their own command line client, as well as other services.

In later releases of OpenStack use of service-specific command line
interfaces will be deprecated. When using the command line to administer
OpenStack it is recommended to use OpenStackClient where possible as
opposed to individual service's command line interfaces such as `nova`'s
CLI.

-----

## **First Time Using OpenStackClient**

For users using OpenStackClient for the first time, follow this section
to learn how to list and show the details of the project associated with
your OpenStack user.

As a first command, try listing the project your user is associated
with, using `openstack project list`:

    $ openstack project list
    +----------------------------------+-----------------+
    | ID                               | Name            |
    +----------------------------------+-----------------+
    | a7f3c46fb8b3404c89dd94b0c33301e0 | User Cloud Test |
    +----------------------------------+-----------------+

Next, list the details of the project under ID
`a7f3c46fb8b3404c89dd94b0c33301e0`, using the `show` subcommand:

    $ openstack project show a7f3c46fb8b3404c89dd94b0c33301e0
    +-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
    | Field       | Value                                                                 |
    +-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
    | description | This is a testing Project used to create documentation for end users. |
    | domain_id   | default                                                               |
    | enabled     | True                                                                  |
    | id          | a7f3c46fb8b3404c89dd94b0c33301e0                                      |
    | is_domain   | False                                                                 |
    | name        | User Cloud Test                                                       |
    | options     | {}                                                                    |
    | parent_id   | default                                                               |
    | tags        | []                                                                    |
    +-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+

**Note\!** -- Entering only `openstack` and running that will take you
into the OpenStackClient shell allowing commands to be run without
needing to prefix them with `openstack`:

    (openstackclient) user@host:~$ openstack
    (openstack) network list
    +--------------------------------------+----------+--------------------------------------+
    | ID                                   | Name     | Subnets                              |
    +--------------------------------------+----------+--------------------------------------+
    | 5cc755c9-41fc-44c2-87e7-642dfdfb0208 | External | a52754dd-13d9-4a36-bab6-10058f4887f5 |
    +--------------------------------------+----------+--------------------------------------+
    (openstack) exit
    (openstackclient) user@host:~$

Type `exit` to leave the OpenStackClient shell.

-----

## **Next Steps**

Navigate to the next guide in this series to learn how to [create networks in
OpenStack](create-a-network).
