---
sidebar_position: 2
---
# Launch an OpenStack Instance Automatically with HashiCorp Terraform

## Introduction

Terraform allows you to write out your cloud's infrastructure as code,
commonly referred to as IaC. Using an IaC model allows software
development practices to be applied to your cloud's infrastructure. A
cloud's infrastructure as code can then be shared and iterated over as
needed. In this guide, we demonstrate how to use Terraform to spin up an
instance within a OpenMetal Private Cloud.

## Prerequisites

- An OpenStack user account. The account does not have to have the
    administrator role.
- Linux command line experience
- A [Terraform installation](https://www.terraform.io/downloads)

## How to Create an Instance Using Terraform

### Step 1: Prepare Terraform Directory

Terraform should be installed to a machine that has Internet access to
your Private Cloud. This could be your own machine or one of your
cloud's hardware nodes, for example.

When working with Terraform, we suggest creating a folder to manage your
Terraform plans and execution files. For example:

    mkdir ~/terraform

### Step 2: Specify Terraform Provider

When working with Terraform, you must specify a provider. There are a
number of providers to choose from located in Terraform's
[Providers](https://registry.terraform.io/browse/providers) website. For
our case, we need to use Terraform's [OpenStack
Provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/terraform-provider-openstack/openstack/latest/docs)
because our clouds are powered by OpenStack.

To specify the OpenStack provider, create a file called `providers.tf`
in your Terraform directory containing:

    terraform {
      required_providers {
        openstack = {
          source = "terraform-provider-openstack/openstack"
          version = "1.46.0"
        }
      }
    }

### Step 3: Initialize Terraform

With a provider defined, Terraform must be initialized.

To initialize Terraform, execute:

    terraform init

When Terraform has been successfully initialized, the following message
is returned:

    Terraform has been successfully initialized!
    You may now begin working with Terraform. Try running "terraform plan" to see
    any changes that are required for your infrastructure. All Terraform commands
    should now work.
    
    If you ever set or change modules or backend configuration for Terraform,
    rerun this command to reinitialize your working directory. If you forget, other
    commands will detect it and remind you to do so if necessary.

### Step 4: Create OpenStack Application Credentials

To point Terraform to the appropriate cloud and authenticate, you can
generate a set of OpenStack Application Credentials. To do so, log in to
your cloud and navigate to the section **Identity -\> Application
Credentials**.

![image](images/application-credentials.png)

**Figure 1:** Application Credentials

Click **Create Application Credential** to create a new set of
credentials. Fill out the details as needed and submit the form. Another
pop up form appears providing you the relevant details, like the **ID**,
**Name**, and **Secret**.. Additionally, you can download either an
`openrc` file or a `clouds.yaml` with this information pre-defined for
you. For this demonstration, we are using `clouds.yaml`. When using
`clouds.yaml`, download this file to the same folder in which you have
initialized Terraform.

The contents of `clouds.yaml` appears similar to:

    clouds:
      openstack:
        auth:
          auth_url: https://cloud.example.com:5000
          application_credential_id: "7442c72c56c34d8780e83ca69b4f2a73"
          application_credential_secret: "xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
        region_name: "iad3"
        interface: "public"
        identity_api_version: 3
        auth_type: "v3applicationcredential"

### Step 5: Create Main Terraform File

Everything is now in place to launch an instance. To do so, we must
create a template, define the `openstack` provider, and define a compute
resource.

#### Configure OpenStack Provider

Within your Terraform directory, create a file called `main.tf`. Then,
for the OpenStack provider, configure the cloud to point to, like so:

    provider "openstack" {
      cloud = "openstack"
    }

The value for `cloud` can be variable. For our case the value should be
set to `openstack`. This is determined by examining the `clouds.yaml`
downloaded in the previous section. The line immediately following
`clouds:` is the name of your cloud. For this example, the start of
`clouds.yaml` appears as:

    clouds:
      openstack:
        auth:
          auth_url: https://cloud.example.com:5000

The line immediately following `clouds:` is `openstack:`, indicating the
name of this cloud is `openstack` and thus the value for `cloud` is set
as `cloud = "openstack"`.

#### Configure Compute Resource

With the provider section configured, you can now define a compute
resource. This compute resource is defined in the same `main.tf` file.
You will need to collect a number of details from your cloud, such as an
image UUID, a list of flavors, a key pair, and any other items needed
when spawning an instance.

To define a compute resource, we use the following template:

    resource "openstack_compute_instance_v2" "<resource-name>" {
      name = ""
      image_id = ""
      flavor_id = ""
      key_pair = ""
      security_groups = []
    
      network {
        name = ""
      }
    }

With the OpenStack Terraform provider, `openstack_compute_instance_v2`
is a resource we can use to create an instance. For more details about
this resource and its configuration options, see Terraform's
[Registry](https://registry.terraform.io/) and search for
`openstack_compute_instance_v2`.

A description of variables used for the `resource` block:

- **name**: Defines the instance's name
- **image\_id**: UUID for an operating system image hosted in your
    cloud
- **flavor\_id**: The value for an instance flavor
- **key\_pair**: The value for a key pair hosted in your cloud
- **security\_groups**: The value in list format for security groups
    to set

Then within the `resource` block, we also configure a network with which
the instance will be associated by creating a `network` block.

A description of the variable used for the `network` block:

- **name**: This is the name of a network available to your project

As an example, here is the above template filled out using details from
a Private Cloud:

    resource "openstack_compute_instance_v2" "terraform-demo-instance" {
      name = "demo-instance"
      image_id = "c786deab-3fc6-4a92-9a1e-54bcab32e2c2"
      flavor_id = "m1.small"
      key_pair = "demo-key"
      security_groups = ["default"]
    
      network {
        name = "Private"
      }
    }

The template name can be changed to suit your purposes but must include
the `.tf` extension.

### Step 6: Create Terraform Plan

Terraform needs to create a plan based on the current configuration.
This plan provides the changes Terraform will make to your cloud prior
to making them, giving an operator a chance for review.

The command to create a Terraform plan is:

    terraform plan

By default `terraform plan` does not save the plan to disk. To have the
plan written to disk, use:

    terraform plan -out <path>

Replacing `<path>` with where you want to store the Terraform plan.

For this example, we will have Terraform create the plan and write the
plan to disk using:

    terraform plan -out ~/terraform/plan

This creates a Terraform plan in the location `~/terraform/plan`.

### Step 7: Deploy Terraform Plan

After reviewing the plan and ensuring the changes to be made meet your
expectations, use Terraform to deploy the plan.

The command to deploy a Terraform plan is:

    terraform apply [PLAN]

Where `[PLAN]` is an optional variable. For this example, since we saved
the plan to disk, we will use that plan when applying Terraform.

For example:

    terraform apply ~/terraform/plan

Results of a successful plan application:

    $ terraform apply ~/terraform/plan
    openstack_compute_instance_v2.terraform-demo-instance: Creating...
    openstack_compute_instance_v2.terraform-demo-instance: Still creating... [10s elapsed]
    openstack_compute_instance_v2.terraform-demo-instance: Still creating... [20s elapsed]
    openstack_compute_instance_v2.terraform-demo-instance: Creation complete after 24s [id=3a126456-bea5-4bc6-8ef8-d3375d35f7c8]
    
    Apply complete! Resources: 1 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.

This concludes using Terraform to spin up an instance in your Private
Cloud.

## View Instance Created by Terraform

To view your created instance, navigate in Horizon to **Project -\>
Compute -\> Instances**, where you can view the instance created by
Terraform.

![image](images/newly-created-terraform-instance.png)

**Figure 2:** Newly Created Terraform Instance
